Proofread 20200326 - index.md (#600)
publiccodenet/about: activities/codebase-stewardship/supporting-governance/index.md

type: Index
---

# Supporting governance

The development of public code requires various forms of governance. Codebase stewardship includes helping communities develop the governance models that best suit their specific situations. We recognize that governance is not "one size fits all", but rather something that needs to be adjusted to the culture, maturity, composition, and size of a community.

The Foundation for Public Code *does not* directly govern codebases. Instead, we offer support and advise on codebase governance, and help *communities* execute governance.

## Determining a community's governance needs

Several basic questions need to be answered regardless of the [methods](../../workshops/) used to determine these needs:

* How should decisions (small and large) about the community and the codebase be made?
  * Can certain issues only be decided by certain community members?
  * Can others be distributed and/or delegated to the wider community or specialists within the community?

>     * If so, how does designation of community members to different decision processes take place?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Who decides which issues are reserved or delegated, and how can community members participate in the decisionmaking process?
```

## Designing a governance model

> After the community's governance needs have been established, a suitable governance model can be designed. To get started, [this template](governance-template.md) can be used as inspiration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the community's governance needs have been established, a suitable governance model can be designed. [This governance template](governance-template.md) can be used as inspiration.
```

The following sections are typically included when designing a governance model:

* Principles
* Maintainership (teams, members and meetings)
* Changes in codebase governance
* Decision-making process
* Conflict resolution
* Intellectual property
* Code of conduct

<!-- All these could possibly have their own sub pages that explain them more in detail. -->

> 

Reviewer 2: I think this is a great opportunity to remove this content debt :)

```suggestion
```

## Standard compliance

[The Standard for Public Code](https://standard.publiccode.net) mentions several criteria related to governance.

### [Welcome contributions](https://standard.publiccode.net/criteria/open-to-contributions.html)

This criterion has several requirements that are related to the governance of a codebase. Firstly, it makes clear that a lot of things need to be publicly accessible and that things need to be openly documented. It then touches upon on how people can interact and what expectations they can have of the codebase. Lastly, it states that the governance itself should be documented in a GOVERNANCE file.

### [Require review of contributions](https://standard.publiccode.net/criteria/require-review.html)

This is the second criterion relevant for codebase governance. It mandates that contributions need to be approved by other parties in the community and specifies how this could be done.

## Anti-patterns

Some common [anti-patterns](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anti-pattern) that we have noticed are:

* The governance model is set up to require reviewer(s) from other organization(s).

>   * If one organization is making 90% of the pull requests, the other organizations may not be able to keep up with that pace. If the model is too rigid, merging them timely might become a problem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * If one organization makes 90% of the pull requests, the other organizations may not be able to keep up with that pace. If the model is too rigid, timely merging might become a problem.
```

>   * If one organization has the majority (or all) of the reviewers, but has not dedicated time for them to review code contributions from other organizations, the back log of pull request to review will grow. If the model is too rigid, merging them timely might become a problem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * If a majority (or all) of the reviewers are part of a single organization that doesn't dedicate time to reviewing code contributions from other organizations, the backlog of pull requests to review will grow. If the model is too rigid, timely merging might become a problem.
```
